1.
“If circumstances allow, I want to attend the opening ceremony for the Pyeongchang Olympics,” Mr Abe said. “At the same time, I’d like to hold a summit with President Moon Jae-in and properly lay out Japan’s position on our ‘comfort women’ agreement.”
“如果条件允许的话，我想出席平昌冬奥会开幕式，”安倍表示。“我希望与韩国总统文在寅举行首脑会谈，向韩方恰当地阐明日本有关日韩慰安妇协议的立场。”

2. making it harder for sb to do something 
Instead, Mr Abe will demand that South Korea honours its side of the 2015 deal, making it harder for Mr Moon to reignite the dispute even as he welcomes world leaders to the Olympics.
相反，安倍将要求韩国方面履行2015年达成的协议，这将使忙于欢迎世界领导人参加奥运会的文在寅更难重启争议。

3.
Mr Abe’s decision suggests he will not break off relations over Seoul’s call for further recompense and apology to “comfort women” forced to work in military brothels during the second world war.
安倍晋三的决定似乎表明，他不会因为首尔在“慰安妇”问题上提出的进一步赔偿和道歉要求而断绝关系；“慰安妇”是指二战期间被迫在随军妓院工作的妇女。

4.
Japan rejects those calls because the two countries signed a “final and irreversible” settlement of the issue in 2015.
日本拒绝响应韩方的呼吁，因为两国已在2015年签署了“最终且不可逆转”的和解协议。

5.
Shinzo Abe will attend the Winter Olympics next month despite a diplomatic dispute with hosts South Korea over Japan’s wartime use of sex slaves.
安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)将出席下月举行的冬季奥运会，尽管与东道主韩国在日本战时使用“性奴隶”的问题上发生了外交纠纷。

6.  thrown into doubt
The 2015 agreement was thrown into doubt early this year when Mr Moon derided it as “seriously flawed”.
2015年的协议在今年初产生变数，当时文在寅不屑地称它“有严重瑕疵”。

7.
A state-appointed panel in South Korea said the previous conservative government had failed to consult victims properly before reaching the deal.
韩国政府任命的一个专家小组称，保守派政党当政的上届政府在达成协议之前，未能妥善地征求受害者的意见。

8.
Earlier this month, South Korea’s foreign ministry said it would not try to renegotiate the agreement, but called on Tokyo to keep making efforts to restore honour and dignity to the victims.
本月早些时候，韩国外交部表示不会试图重新谈判协议，但呼吁东京方面继续作出努力，恢复受害者的名誉和尊严

9.
The South Korean government also said it would set aside $9m to help the victims in place of compensation already paid by Japan.
韩国政府还表示，将拨出900万美元帮助受害者，接替日方已经支付的赔偿金

10.
Many in South Korea and Japan regard those actions as tantamount to nullifying the deal. 
韩国和日本都有许多人认为，这些行为等同于(无异于)推翻(终止，废除)协议

11. by doing sth  通过某种方式
Some of Mr Abe’s conservative supporters want him to retaliate by freezing relations with Seoul. 
安倍的一些保守派支持者希望他冻结与首尔的关系，借此进行报复。

12.
They want to uphold Japan’s end of the deal and force Mr Moon to take the initiative.
他们希望履行日本在协议中的义务，迫使文在寅出牌

13.
Many in Japan think Seoul uses the issue as a diplomatic weapon and no apology will ever be sufficient.
日本很多人认为，既然首尔把这个问题当作一件外交武器，日方再怎么道歉也没有用。

14.
sufficient remorse   足够的悔意

15.
Donald Trump has for the first time opened the door to the US rejoining the Trans-Pacific Partnership a year after making withdrawing from it one of his first acts in office.
唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)上任后的第一件事就是退出《跨太平洋伙伴关系协定》(TPP)，而一年后的今天他首次打开了美国重新加入TPP的大门。

16.
Mr Trump is due to address the forum on Friday in a much-anticipated speech that will lay out his defence of his “America First” trade policy and declare that it is good for the global economy.
特朗普将于周五在达沃斯论坛上发表备受期待的演讲，届时他将为“美国优先”(America First)贸易政策辩护，并宣告该政策有利于全球经济。

17.
The TPP, which the US spent years negotiating with Japan and 10 other economies, was one of the biggest geo-economic priorities of the Obama administration and constructed as a long-term strategic response to the rise of China.
美国耗费多年与日本和另外10个经济体谈判达成TPP，这是奥巴马政府在地缘经济方面的重点之一，从结构上设计为针对中国崛起的长期战略对策。

18.
But Mr Trump put his opposition to it at the centre of his 2016 run for the presidency and aides have repeatedly hailed his decision to leave the TPP as “historic” and a pillar of his efforts to rewrite the US’s trading relationships.
但是特朗普把反对TPP列为他2016年竞选总统的中心议题，他的助手多次称赞他退出TPP的决定是“历史性的”，称其为他改写美国贸易关系的支柱举措

19.
Led by Japan, the remaining countries in the TPP this week struck a final agreement to press ahead and have said they will sign the deal in March. They also have left the door open to the US rejoining someday.
在日本的领导下，本周TPP的其余成员国达成了最终协议，并表示他们将在3月签署该协议。他们还为美国某一天重新加入TPP敞开了大门。

20.
Rather than strip them out entirely from the agreement, the remaining countries have frozen almost two dozen provisions that had been sought by the US.
其余国家冻结（而不是彻底删除）美国寻求的20多个条款。

21.
Investors are also wary ahead of earnings reports from the largest publicly traded US companies, including Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Google-owner Alphabet, later this week.
本周晚些时候，苹果(Apple)、Facebook、亚马逊(Amazon)和谷歌(Google)母公司Alphabet等美国各大上市公司将发布盈利报告。
在那之前，投资者也抱有谨慎为上的心态。

22.
The hard bit is valuation — it leaves the market exposed to exactly what we are seeing today.
不容易评估的是估值——它让市场容易发生我们今天所看到的情况。

23.
US stocks were sharply lower in midday on Tuesday, deepening a global sell-off as investors worry that a long winning streak has pushed valuations too far.
美国股市周二大幅下跌，加剧了全球股市抛售。投资者担心近期连续上涨已使估值达到过高水平。

24.
Janet Yellen kept the Federal Reserve on course for a further interest rate rise in March in her final meeting as chair of the central bank, with the inflation outlook strengthening and America’s jobs market continuing to heat up.
在通胀前景增强、美国就业市场持续升温的背景下，
珍妮特•耶伦(Janet Yellen)在其担任美联储主席的最后一次议息会议上，让美国央行保持在3月加息的轨道上。

25.
Expectations for inflation in financial markets have risen in recent months, even if they remain low, the central bank said.
美联储表示，最近几个月，金融市场的通胀预期有所提高，尽管仍然维持在较低水平。

26.







